# OMGAM 2019.Jan OSRdF
*Old School Rollunder dF*

## Components
The Table refers to the collective group of players who participate in the game.  One of these players is the Ref.

The players are responsible for the actions of their Characters, and use Fudge dice to determine the outcome of their actions.

The Fudge dice (dF) are six sided and labeled with Plus, Blank, and Minus sides.

## Play
During play, each player controls one or more characters.  Characters have six attributes that describe their abilities.  Each attribute may be rated from -2 through +2.  The attributes are:

* **Brawn** - bulk, strength, vitality
* **Grace** - dexterity, agility, speed
* **Creativity** - unstructured thinking, creating
* **Logic** - structured thinking, learned skills
* **Will** - focus, prolonged activity, determination
* **Empathy** - relating to others, understanding
    
The Ref is a player who facilitates conversation at the table and adjudicates the play of the game.  They will make decisions about story elements and may make rulings when needed.  Often, the Ref will be responsible for many minor characters or setting elements, which do not always need to be fully detailed with attributes.

## Action
When there is a dramatic need -- possibly because of an interesting risk of failure or a need to create tension -- select two attributes that most represent the activity described.  

Action is resolved by rolling four Fudge dice (4dF) and summing the results.

The total must be lower than the sum of two attributes chosen previously.

The margin of success of failure determines how well the action succeeded, or how spectacularly it failed.

When characters actions oppose one another, roll for each and compare margin of success. 

## Creating a Character
Roll 2dF for each stat, to obtain a value from -2 to +2.

## Examples
         Brawn  brute force          Grace  quick            Creativity  persuasion
         Brawn                  Creativity  reflexes            Empathy  
    
         Brawn  athletics,           Grace  skill,                Logic  structured 
         Grace  physicality          Logic  learned forms         Logic  analysis
    
         Brawn  pugilism,            Grace  endurance             Logic  solving 
    Creativity  sumo                  Will  (eg racing)            Will  puzzles
    
         Brawn  skilled              Grace  swing dance,          Logic  argue, 
         Logic  labor              Empathy  judo                Empathy  psychoanalysis
    
         Brawn  stamina,        Creativity  finding                Will  set mind 
          Will  immunities      Creativity  inspiration            Will  in motion
    
         Brawn  physical        Creativity  knowledge              Will  demanding, 
       Empathy  intimidation         Logic  work                Empathy  gaslighting
    
         Grace  Poise           Creativity  writing novel       Empathy  reading people 
         Grace                        Will                      Empathy  or groups


[OSRdF](https://github.com/mootootwo/omgam) by [Luke Miller](https://twitter.com/mootootwo) is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/).
